# Collaborative document - Build Systems Course and Hackathon, October 2024

## Icebreaker question

Which program languages are you using?

C: ooooooooo
C++: ooooooooooo
Python: oooooooooooooooooooo
Fortran: ooooooooo
Matlab: ooo
Scheme: o
Java: o
Julia: oooo
javascript/typescript: oo
R: ooo

## Compilers/Linkers/Libraries
Slides: https://github.com/PDC-support/comp-link-lib/blob/main/comp-link-lib.pdf
Code: https://github.com/PDC-support/comp-link-lib/tree/main

### Questions:

- Does ``LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$PWD`` work nicely as well?
    - Technically in this case, but appending with ``LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:$PWD`` is cleaner, since your command overwrites the whole variable.
    - Great!
- I would like _short_ summaries (I could google as well!) of differences and use cases between libraries that are:
    - static
    - dynamic
    - shared
      - Good suggestion. We will make these amendments to the slides used in the first lecture. Not right now, but later today.

## Make
Lesson: https://coderefinery.github.io/make-lesson/index.html

Exercise until xx:45
https://coderefinery.github.io/make-lesson/exercise.html

In order to reproduce Exercise 3, Step 2, should specify that all "hello" instances should be replaced by "calculation"
    - Thanks!

### Questions:

## Introduction to Autotools
Lesson: https://github.com/PDC-support/introduction-to-autotools

configure.ac in example4 and exercise3 have been updated in the repository to include a line `AC_PROG_CC`towards the top. This is required when using conditionals (if/then/else) in configure.ac. This is also now explained in an extra slide.

### Questions:

- Are paths to source files needed, like ``src/``? Or are all sub-directories searched through?
    - Subdirectories are not automatically searched through. A typical way to handle a subdirectory is to have a new Makefile.am in the subdirectory and have a list of the subdirectories to consider in the top-level Makefile.am.
    - If you specifically need to refer to a subdirectory from the top-level, you can do $(srcdir)/mysubdir/file.c
    - Please look further in the documentation.
    - Thank you!

-  Can you upload the solutions? (I could not catch how to include the hello.c into the sources). Many thanks. (not pushed to github yet it seems!)
    -  Done! (subdirectory `solutions` in the repository)

- Is there any command to clean the directory with generated files? In some cases it's hard to find the original files and by removing autogenerated files it's easier to find them. (something like make clean)
    - *Some* autogenerated files will be removed by `make distclean`
- A lot of files are generated which are needed only on developer's computer. Which files are necessary to ship to clients?
    - It depends on if you are only using `autoconf` or also `automake`.
    - If only using `autoconf`then it is sufficient to ship `configure`, `Makefile.in` and `config.h.in` (essentially all *.in files)
    - If using `automake`, what's necessary to *ship* is first the required files `README`, `ChangeLog`, `NEWS` and `AUTHORS`, but then also `aclocal.m4` and all files generated by `autoreconf` (except the subdirectory autom4te.cache) in addition to the above.
    - Files *only* required on the developers computer are the `configure.ac` and `Makefile.am` as well as some subdirectories created.
    - After having done `./configure`, do `make dist`and look at what is included in the tar archive.
